
# Developing Spark code with assistance from Gemini CLI
This section assume you are using [Gemini CLI](https://geminicli.com/),  which integrates with the existing development workflow, and can be used for code development and review. You can use [Gemini](https://gemini.google.com/) from the browser to create code fragments or [Antigravity](https://antigravity.google/) which is an agentic development platform. All these tools use the same underlying Gemini model.

> WARNING:
> Gemini can generate incorrect code, review before using.

## Gemini CLI Installation and pricing
* Instructions for installing [Gemini CLI](https://geminicli.com/docs/get-started/installation/)
* Gemini has a generous free tier and there are [paid plans](https://geminicli.com/plans/) available

## Benefits of developing code with Gemini CLI vs using Google provided dataproc templates
Some of the dataproc templates are tested nightly against Serverless for Apache Spark version 1.2. While they may work with other versions, they are not tested regularly. Here are the benefits of the code developed by Gemini CLI:
1. Gemini works within user's existing directory structure and reviews existing code before code generation. Code generated by Gemini integrates well with existing code.
2. Gemini supports tranforming data from any source or sink to any other source or sink.
3. Gemini is flexible and supports notebooks and other languages like Scala and R.
4. User (GCP customer) owns the license on the code that is developed.
5. With the correct prompt Gemini generated code incorporates nuances like partitions, writing in batches and using secret manager to fetch credentials.
## Sample Prompts for Gemini and modifications needed to run resulting programs
This directory contains a number of samples that were generated by Gemini and then tested to ensure they functioned correctly. Some changes were required and are described in the documentation. The samples are as follows:
1. Hive to BigQuery (Python) - See [sample prompt and changes here](python/hive_to_BQReadme.md). 
2. GCS to GCS (Python) - See [sample prompt and changes here](python/transform_parquet_to_avroREADME.md). 
3. JDBC to JDBC (Java) - See [sample prompt and changes here](java/migrateJdbcToJdbc.md). 
4. DeltaLake to Iceberg (Java) - See [sample prompt and changes here](java/migrateDeltaLakeToIceberg.md). 
5. BigQuery to Elasticsearch (Python) - See [sample prompt and changes here](python/migrateBigQueryToElasticsearch.md). 
6. Cassandra to BigQuery (Java) - See [sample prompt and changes here](java/migrateCassandraToBigquery.md). 
7. Kafka to Iceberg (Java) - See [sample prompt and changes here](java/migrateKafkaToIceberg.md). 
8. MongoDB to BigQuery (Java) - See [sample prompt and changes here](java/migrateMongodbToBigquery.md).